[libbeat]: Add lowercase_key processor (#41424)
elastic/beats: libbeat/processors/actions/docs/lowercase.asciidoc

[[lowercase]]
=== Lowercase fields in events

++++
<titleabbrev>lowercase</titleabbrev>
++++

The `lowercase` processor specifies a list of fields that should be converted to lowercase. This transformation applies to keys that match the specified fields. Matching is performed case-insensitively. 

==== Examples: 

1. Default scenario 

[source,yaml]
----
processors:
  - rename:
      fields:
        - "ab.cd"
      ignore_missing: false
      fail_on_error: true
      full_path: true
----
[source,json]
----
// Input
{
  "AB": {"CD":"data"},
  "CD": {"ef":"data"} 
}

// output
{

>   "ab": {"cd":"data"},  // abcd is lowercased

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "ab": {"cd":"data"},  // `AB.CD` -> `ab.cd`
```

  "CD": {"ef":"data"}  
}
----

[start=2]
2. When `full_path` is false

[source,yaml]
----
processors:
  - rename:
      fields:
        - "ab.cd"
      ignore_missing: false
      fail_on_error: true
      alter_full_field: false
----

[source,json]
----
// Input
{
  "AB": {"CD":"data"},
  "CD": {"ef":"data"} 
}

// output
{

>   "AB": {"cd":"data"},  // only cd is lowercased

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "AB": {"cd":"data"},  // `AB.CD` -> `AB.cd` (only `cd` is lowercased)
```

  "CD": {"ef":"data"}  
}
----

[start=2]
2. In case of non unique path to the key

[source,yaml]
----
processors:
  - rename:
      fields:
        - "ab"
      ignore_missing: false
      fail_on_error: true
      alter_full_field: true
----

[source,json]
----
// Input
{
  "ab": "first",
  "aB": "second"
}

// Output
{
  "ab": "first",
  "aB": "second",
  "err": "... Error: key collision"
}
----

==== Configuration:

The `lowercase` processor has the following configuration settings:

> `fields`:: The fields to lowercase. The match is case-insensitive, e.g. `a.b.c.d` would match `A.b.C.d` or `A.B.C.D`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`fields`:: The field names to lowercase. The match is case-insensitive, e.g. `a.b.c.d` would match `A.b.C.d` or `A.B.C.D`.
```

`ignore_missing`:: (Optional) Indicates whether to ignore events that lack the source field.
                    The default is `false`, which will fail processing of an event if a field is missing.
`fail_on_error`:: (Optional) If set to `true` and an error occurs, the changes are reverted and the original event is returned.
                    If set to `false`, processing continues if an error occurs. Default is `true`.

> `alter_full_path`:: (Optional) If set to `true`, the entire key path is lowercased. If set to `false` only the final part of the key path is lowercased. Default is true    

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`alter_full_field`:: (Optional) If set to `true`, the entire key path is lowercased. If set to `false` only the final part of the key path is lowercased. Default is true    
```

[[lowercase]]

> === Lowercase from events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
=== Lowercase fields in events
```

++++
<titleabbrev>lowercase</titleabbrev>
++++

The `lowercase` processor specifies a list of fields that must be lowercased. This applies only to keys that match the given fields. The default behaviour of the processor is to modify the most nested key in the chain. Use `full_path` to lowercase all keys in the nested chain.

==== Examples: 

[source,yaml]
----
processors:
  - rename:
      fields:

>         - "a.B"

Reviewer: I think this processor only makes sense if the key comparison is case-insensitive. See the customer's use-case https://github.com/elastic/beats/issues/22254#issuecomment-722706018

We need to highlight this in the docs and adjust the implementation.

If we need so, we can introduce the `case_sensitive` flag in the config later.

```suggestion
        - "a.b.c.d"
```

      ignore_missing: false
      fail_on_error: true

>       full_path: false

Reviewer: If we exclude it from the PR, should delete from the docs too.
```suggestion
```

----

1. For above config

[source,json]
----
{

>   "A.B": {"c.D"}  // Input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "A.B": {"C.D":"data"}  // Input
```

}

{

>   "A.b": {"c.D"}  // output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "A.B": {"C.d":"data"}  // output
```

}
----

[start=2]
2. If `full_path` is set to true

[source,json]
----
{

>   "a.B": {"c.D"}  // Input

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "A.B": {"C.D":"data"}  // Input
```

}

{

>   "a.b": {"c.D"}  // output

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  "a.b": {"c.d":"data"}  // output
```

}
----

==== Configuration:

> The `lowercase_keys` processor has the following configuration settings:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `lowercase` processor has the following configuration settings:
```

> `fields`:: The fields to lowercase.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`fields`:: The fields to lowercase. The match is case-insensitive, e.g. `a.b.c.d` would match `A.b.C.d` or `A.B.C.D`.
```

`ignore_missing`:: (Optional) Indicates whether to ignore events that lack the source field.
                    The default is `false`, which will fail processing of an event if a field is missing.
`fail_on_error`:: (Optional) If set to `true` and an error occurs, the changes are reverted and the original event is returned.
                    If set to `false`, processing continues if an error occurs. Default is `true`.

> `full_path`:: (Optional) If set to `true`, all keys leading to the most nested key in the chain is lowercased. Default is `false` which means only the latest key is modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`full_path`:: (Optional) If set to `true`, all keys leading to the most nested key in the chain get lowercased. Default is `false` which means only the latest key is modified.
```

> `full_path`:: (Optional) If set to `true`, all keys leading to the most nested key in the chain get lowercased. Default is `false` which means only the latest key is modified.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

[[lowercase]]
=== Lowercase fields in events

++++
<titleabbrev>lowercase</titleabbrev>
++++

> The `lowercase` processor specifies a list of fields that must be lowercased. This applies only to keys that match the given fields. The default behaviour of the processor is to modify the most nested key in the chain. It does not support keys with dot notation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `lowercase` processor specifies a list of fields that must be lowercased. This applies only to keys that match the given fields. The default behaviour of the processor is to modify the most nested segment of the key in the chain.
```
